content/docs/getting-started/installation/frameworkless.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
---

import Install from './_install.mdx';

{/* # Installation */}

> NativeWind works with both Expo and framework-less React Native projects but Expo provides a more streamlined experience.
> 
> **Web**: If you'd like to use Metro to bundle for a website or App Clip and you are **not** using Expo, you will need either Expo's Metro config `@expo/metro-config` or to manually use Tailwind CLI to generate a CSS file.


<a href="./" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">SDK50+</a> 
| <a href="./sdk49" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">SDK49</a> 
| <a href="./frameworkless" className="underline underline-offset-8 text-fd-primary hover:opacity-100 p-4">Framework-less</a> 
| <a href="./nextjs" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">Next.js</a>

Before installing NativeWind, you will need to [initialize your project with the React Native Community CLI](https://reactnative.dev/docs/getting-started-without-a-framework).

## Installation with Framework-less React Native

### 1. Install NativeWind

<Install framework="framework-less" />

Run `pod-install` to finish installation of `react-native-reanimated`

```bash
npx pod-install
```

### 2. Setup Tailwind CSS

Run `npx tailwindcss init` to create a `tailwind.config.js` file

Add the paths to all of your component files in your tailwind.config.js file.

```js title="tailwind.config.js"
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  // NOTE: Update this to include the paths to all of your component files.
  content: ["./App.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}"],
  presets: [require("nativewind/preset")],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

Create a CSS file and add the Tailwind directives

```css title="global.css"
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

:::info

From here onwards, replace `./global.css` with the relative path to the CSS file you just created

:::

### 3. Add the Babel preset

```diff title="babel.config.js"
module.exports = {
- presets: ['<existing presets>'],
+ presets: ['<existing presets>', 'nativewind/babel'],
};
```

### 4. Modify your metro.config.js

```js title="metro.config.js"
const { getDefaultConfig, mergeConfig } = require("@react-native/metro-config");
const { withNativeWind } = require("nativewind/metro");

const config = mergeConfig(getDefaultConfig(__dirname), {
  /* your config */
});

module.exports = withNativeWind(config, { input: "./global.css" });
```

### 5. Import your CSS file

```js title="App.tsx"
import "./global.css"

export default App() {
  /* Your App */
}
```

### 6. TypeScript
By default, the React Native Community CLI includes TypeScript support. Subsequently, you will need to follow the [TypeScript guide](./typescript) to finish setting up NativeWind in your project.

## Additional Setup Guides

- [Using with Monorepos](./using-with-monorepos) - Learn how to set up NativeWind in monorepo environments like NX
- [Other Bundlers](./other-bundlers) - Learn how to use NativeWind with other bundlers

Commit message:

replace NativeWind with Nativewind part 1

content/docs/getting-started/installation/frameworkless.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
---

import Install from './_install.mdx';

{/* # Installation */}

> Nativewind works with both Expo and framework-less React Native projects but Expo provides a more streamlined experience.
> 
> **Web**: If you'd like to use Metro to bundle for a website or App Clip and you are **not** using Expo, you will need either Expo's Metro config `@expo/metro-config` or to manually use Tailwind CLI to generate a CSS file.


<a href="./" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">SDK50+</a> 
| <a href="./sdk49" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">SDK49</a> 
| <a href="./frameworkless" className="underline underline-offset-8 text-fd-primary hover:opacity-100 p-4">Framework-less</a> 
| <a href="./nextjs" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">Next.js</a>

Before installing Nativewind, you will need to [initialize your project with the React Native Community CLI](https://reactnative.dev/docs/getting-started-without-a-framework).

## Installation with Framework-less React Native

### 1. Install Nativewind

<Install framework="framework-less" />

Run `pod-install` to finish installation of `react-native-reanimated`

```bash
npx pod-install
```

### 2. Setup Tailwind CSS

Run `npx tailwindcss init` to create a `tailwind.config.js` file

Add the paths to all of your component files in your tailwind.config.js file.

```js title="tailwind.config.js"
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  // NOTE: Update this to include the paths to all of your component files.
  content: ["./App.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}"],
  presets: [require("nativewind/preset")],
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

Create a CSS file and add the Tailwind directives

```css title="global.css"
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

:::info

From here onwards, replace `./global.css` with the relative path to the CSS file you just created

:::

### 3. Add the Babel preset

```diff title="babel.config.js"
module.exports = {
- presets: ['<existing presets>'],
+ presets: ['<existing presets>', 'nativewind/babel'],
};
```

### 4. Modify your metro.config.js

```js title="metro.config.js"
const { getDefaultConfig, mergeConfig } = require("@react-native/metro-config");
const { withNativeWind } = require("nativewind/metro");

const config = mergeConfig(getDefaultConfig(__dirname), {
  /* your config */
});

module.exports = withNativeWind(config, { input: "./global.css" });
```

### 5. Import your CSS file

```js title="App.tsx"
import "./global.css"

export default App() {
  /* Your App */
}
```

### 6. TypeScript
By default, the React Native Community CLI includes TypeScript support. Subsequently, you will need to follow the [TypeScript guide](./typescript) to finish setting up Nativewind in your project.

## Additional Setup Guides

- [Using with Monorepos](./using-with-monorepos) - Learn how to set up Nativewind in monorepo environments like NX
- [Other Bundlers](./other-bundlers) - Learn how to use Nativewind with other bundlers
