content/docs/getting-started/installation/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
---

import Install from './_install.mdx';

{/* # Installation */}

> NativeWind works with both Expo and framework-less React Native projects but Expo provides a more streamlined experience.
> 
> **Web**: If you'd like to use Metro to bundle for a website or App Clip and you are **not** using Expo, you will need either Expo's Metro config `@expo/metro-config` or to manually use Tailwind CLI to generate a CSS file.

<a href="./installation/" className="underline underline-offset-8 text-fd-primary hover:opacity-100 p-4">SDK50+</a> 
| <a href="./installation/sdk49" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">SDK49</a> 
| <a href="./installation/frameworkless" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">Framework-less</a> 
| <a href="./installation/nextjs" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">Next.js</a>

<Callout type="tip">
 If you'd like to skip manual setup and use NativeWind with Expo, you can use the following command to initialize a new Expo project with NativeWind and Tailwind CSS.

  ```bash
  npx create-expo-stack@latest --nativewind
  ```
</Callout>

## Installation with Expo SDK 50+

### 1. Install NativeWind

<Install framework="expo" />

### 2. Setup Tailwind CSS

<include>./_tailwind.mdx</include>

### 3. Add the Babel preset

```js title="babel.config.js"
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: [
      ["babel-preset-expo", { jsxImportSource: "nativewind" }],
      "nativewind/babel",
    ],
  };
};
```

### 4. Modify your metro.config.js

```js title="metro.config.js"
const { getDefaultConfig } = require("expo/metro-config");
const { withNativeWind } = require('nativewind/metro');

const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname)

module.exports = withNativeWind(config, { input: './global.css' })
```

### 5. Import your CSS file

```js title="App.js"
import "./global.css"

export default App() {
  /* Your App */
}
```

### 6. Modify your `app.json`

Switch the bundler to use the [Metro bundler](https://docs.expo.dev/guides/customizing-metro/#web-support)

```js
{
  "expo": {
    "web": {
      "bundler": "metro"
    }
  }
}
```

### 7. TypeScript (optional)

Please follow the [TypeScript guide](./typescript).

## Additional Setup Guides

- [Using with Monorepos](./using-with-monorepos) - Learn how to set up NativeWind in monorepo environments like NX
- [Other Bundlers](./other-bundlers) - Learn how to use NativeWind with other bundlers

Commit message:

chore: replace more NativeWind with Nativewind

content/docs/getting-started/installation/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
---

import Install from './_install.mdx';

{/* # Installation */}

> Nativewind works with both Expo and framework-less React Native projects but Expo provides a more streamlined experience.
> 
> **Web**: If you'd like to use Metro to bundle for a website or App Clip and you are **not** using Expo, you will need either Expo's Metro config `@expo/metro-config` or to manually use Tailwind CLI to generate a CSS file.

<a href="./installation/" className="underline underline-offset-8 text-fd-primary hover:opacity-100 p-4">SDK50+</a> 
| <a href="./installation/sdk49" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">SDK49</a> 
| <a href="./installation/frameworkless" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">Framework-less</a> 
| <a href="./installation/nextjs" className="decoration-transparent hover:decoration-fd-foreground opacity-70 hover:opacity-100 underline-offset-8 rounded-lg p-4">Next.js</a>

<Callout type="tip">
 If you'd like to skip manual setup and use Nativewind with Expo, you can use the following command to initialize a new Expo project with Nativewind and Tailwind CSS.

  ```bash
  npx create-expo-stack@latest --nativewind
  ```
</Callout>

## Installation with Expo SDK 50+

### 1. Install Nativewind

<Install framework="expo" />

### 2. Setup Tailwind CSS

<include>./_tailwind.mdx</include>

### 3. Add the Babel preset

```js title="babel.config.js"
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: [
      ["babel-preset-expo", { jsxImportSource: "nativewind" }],
      "nativewind/babel",
    ],
  };
};
```

### 4. Modify your metro.config.js

```js title="metro.config.js"
const { getDefaultConfig } = require("expo/metro-config");
const { withNativeWind } = require('nativewind/metro');

const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname)

module.exports = withNativeWind(config, { input: './global.css' })
```

### 5. Import your CSS file

```js title="App.js"
import "./global.css"

export default App() {
  /* Your App */
}
```

### 6. Modify your `app.json`

Switch the bundler to use the [Metro bundler](https://docs.expo.dev/guides/customizing-metro/#web-support)

```js
{
  "expo": {
    "web": {
      "bundler": "metro"
    }
  }
}
```

### 7. TypeScript (optional)

Please follow the [TypeScript guide](./typescript).

## Additional Setup Guides

- [Using with Monorepos](./using-with-monorepos) - Learn how to set up Nativewind in monorepo environments like NX
- [Other Bundlers](./other-bundlers) - Learn how to use Nativewind with other bundlers
